---

title: Building a delighted RESTful API with Laravel
slug: building-a-delighted-restful-api-with-laravel-16
date: 2019-01-09
category: Laravel
tags:
  - laravel
  - api
  - php
image: "/src/content/images/default_image.jpeg"
excerpt: Building a delighted RESTful API with Laravel
---

Writing API with [Laravel](https://laravel.com) considering easy, however writing delightful API with Laravel is not that easy. To write a delighted API, you need to have a proper plan for your API.

I am planning to share my personal opinion on how to write an incremental API with Laravel. As a consequence, I am going to share you first, how to plan a Laravel API that everybody love.

First of all, we need to define two types of structural elements for planning a lucrative API via Laravel. Two structural elements are-

- Rules for defining API End-points
- Rules for writing Code

Today, in this tutorial, I am going to share how to define the rules for [RESTful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) API end-points.

## Rules for defining API End-points

In my personal experience, I realized that defining rules for writing API end-points is really crucial to write manageable API. So, that first step for API plan is to define the rules how to define a new API end-points. It will help to follow a systematic end-point for the development team.

If you decided to use RESTful style for your API, you need to strictly follow the RESTful syntax. Besides, it should completely depend on the [HTTP Verbs](https://restfulapi.net/http-methods/). In addition, the developer should not be allowed to write any **CUSTOM METHOD**.


### End-point syntax:
```sh
api/{versionNumber}/{resourceName}/{actionName}
```

### Terminology:

There is some terminology I have used in the above syntax. Let me introduce you all syntaxes.

* A resource is an object or representation of something, which has some associated data with it and there can be a set of methods to operate on it. E.g. Users, Posts, Shops, and Products are resources and delete, add, update are the operations to be performed on these resources.
* Collections are a set of resources, e.g Shops is the collection of Shop resource.
* URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is a path through which a resource can be located and some actions can be performed on it.

Let's see some example on that API end-point syntax.

#### End-point Example:
```sh
GET		api/v3/shops			// show list of shops
POST	api/v3/shops/create		// create a new shop
GET		api/v3/shops/11			// show a shop details of shop id = 11
PUT 	api/v3/shops/11			// update
DELETE	api/v3/shops/11			// delete a shop of id = 11
```


#### Sub End-point syntax:

Sometimes, you need to define subresources for a resource. In this case, you need to follow the following structure.
```sh
api/{versionNumber}/{resourceName}/*/{subResourceName}/*
```

Imagine that, you have a sub-resource called products that belong to a resource called shops. Let's see how the endpoint will be-


#### End-point Example:
```sh
GET		api/v3/shops/11/products			// show list of products of shop id = 11
POST	api/v3/shops/11/products			// create a new product of shop id = 11
GET		api/v3/shops/11/products/1			// show a product details of id = 1 from shop id = 11
DELETE	api/v3/shops/11/products/1			// delete a product of id = 1 where shop of id = 11
```

For some reason, you need to define the sub of sub-resources too. In that case, you need to follow the same structure also.


```sh
api/{versionNumber}/{resourceName}/*/{subResourceName}/*/{subSubResourceName}
```

### Resource Naming Convention

The next important to follow the same naming convention for defining a resource, so that the structure of the API end-point will be the same style from every developer.

Imagine that, a shop has a shop fan page. So, the resources and sub-resources for this naming convention should be-
```sh
GET api/v3/shops/{shopId}/fanpage
```


Instead of-

```php
GET api/v3/shops/{shopId}/shopFanpage
```


### How to define a Group of End-points

Sometimes you need to define a group of API endpoints those are working for the same resources. In this case, it is my opinion to use `Route::prefix()` instead of individual end-points to organize the code. For example, imagine you have a shops resource that has few restful actions. The route should be like this-
```php
Route::prefix('shops')->group(function(){
	Route::get('/', 'YourController@index')->name('shops');
	Route::get('{shopId}', 'YourController@show')->name('shops.show');
	Route::post('/', 'YourController@create')->name('shops.create');
	Route::put('/', 'YourController@update')->name('shops.update');
	Route::delete('/', 'YourController@delete')->name('shops.delete');
});
```
It's also required to wrap resource and subresource in some cases. In that situation, you can use the prefix to wrap another prefix. For example, imagine you have a shop's resources and products as a sub-resources, where end-points will be like this-

```php
Route::prefix('shops/{shopId}')->group(function(){
	Route::prefix('products')->group(function(){
		Route::get('/', 'YourController@index')->name('products');
		Route::get('{productId}', 'YourController@show')->name('products.show');
		Route::post('/', 'YourController@create')->name('products.create');
		Route::put('/', 'YourController@update')->name('products.update');
		Route::delete('/', 'YourController@delete')->name('products.delete');
	});
});
```

#### Field Expansion:
If you want to get the `GET /products` query, it will return entire objects and also paginated the results. This is common for most edges. In that case, you can also add limit and order the results.

#### Limit
You can limit down your result during fetching data.

```sh
api/v3/shops/*?fields=all&limit=3
```

The above link should return all the field where just return 3 results.

#### Order
You can order your result based on resource creation time.
```sh
api/v3/shops/*/orders?fields=all&order=chronological&limit=3
```

Here, it will fetch orders of a particular shop in chronological order by limiting down 3 results. The types of order should be-

* `chronological` — orders results with the oldest created objects first.
* `reverse_chronological` — orders results with the newest created objects first.

Hope you love my idea. In the next tutorial, I will show you how to set rules for writing the code. Thank you. :)