---

title: Learning PHPUnit | Part 1
slug: learning-phpunit-part-1-31
date: 2019-07-20
category: Laravel
tags:
  - php
  - laravel
  - phpunit
  - laravel-testing
image: "/src/content/images/default_image.jpeg"
excerpt: Learning PHPUnit | Part 1
---

I was planning to write a few articles about **PHP Unit** for the beginner. Today, finally I got a chance to do that. In this series of article, I am going to show you how to use PHP Unit in PHP for the absolute beginner. In this consequence, today I am going to show you how to install PHP Unit with Composer. Let's dig into it-

First, let's create a folder called **phpunit** and open it in your editor as well as terminal. It's completely empty.

First of all, in your terminal, run the following command to download **PHP Unit** from the composer.

```sh
composer require phpunit/phpunit
```
Just take note that, I assume the composer is installed on your computer.

Once done, you will see the structure of your directory is like this-

- vendor [folder]
- composer.json

Of course, there are many folders and files insider the vendor directory. Just ignore that for time being.

Now in your terminal, if you run `vendor/bin/phpunit`, then the phpunit should response something at least.

Now, firstly create two folders called **tests** where normally we will put all of our test files and **app** where we will put all of our classes. Then in the `composer.json` file, we need to tell them, there is a folder you need to autoload. The `composer.json` file should be like that-

**composer.json**
```json
{
    "require": {
        "phpunit/phpunit": "^7.5"
    },
    "autoload": {
    	"psr-4":{
    		"App\\": "app"
    	}
    }
}
```

Then in your terminal, you need to run the following command to update autoloading files.
```sh
composer dump-autolod
```

The next things, you have to create a file called **phpunit.xml** in your main directory. Then paste the following basic core for phpunit.xml. The file should be like this-

**phpunit.xml**
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<phpunit bootstrap="vendor/autoload.php"
         cacheResult="true"
         colors="true"
         verbose="true">
    <testsuites>
        <testsuite name="Test suite">
            <directory>tests</directory>
        </testsuite>
    </testsuites>
</phpunit>
```

Have you done all the parts? Cool.

So far we have done all the settings for PHP Unit. Now, if you run `vendor/bin/phpunit` in your terminal, you should see a response from the PHP unit at least.

Well, today, I just show you how to install PHPUnit with the composer. In the next episode, I will show you how to write your first test with PHP Unit.