---

title: Understanding Autoload and Namespace in PHP
slug: understanding-autoload-and-namespace-in-php-57
date: 2019-09-24
category: Laravel
tags:
  - laravel
  - php
  - json
image: "/src/content/images/default_image.jpeg"
excerpt: If you come across from procedural PHP programming, __autoload__ and __namespace__ kind of confusing naming for you. To make it easier, today, I will take a deep dive into understanding autoload and namespace in PHP.
---

If you come across from procedural PHP programming, __autoload__ and __namespace__ kind of confusing naming for you. To make it easier, today, I will take a deep dive into understanding autoload and namespace in PHP.

## Table of Contents

## What is Autoloading?
Autoloading is a mechanism where you can load all the required files in your project automatically.

For example, you have a few files-

- Models\Users.php
- Models\Tasks.php
- Models\Posts.php

Now, if I want to use those files in my `index.php` file, we just use `include()` or `require()` function to load like this-

__index.php__

```php
<?php

include('Models\Users.php');
include('Models\Tasks.php');
include('Models\Posts.php');

...
```

Now just imagine that you have 20 dependency files to include in `index.php` file, then you need to use `include()` so many times. So, isn't that better to include a single file that is totally responsible to load all the files in our app?

Literally, to solve this issue, the autoloading concept comes in the PHP world.



## Namespace

The namespace is a concept to define the exact file location for handling the big project where many files are involved. It allows and makes your life easier to manage and maintain files in different folders.


## Practice

Let's define an empty project called __autoload__ and the structure of your application is like so-

autoload
	- app
		- Models
			- User.php
		- Controllers
			- UserController.php
	- index.php

Now, let's create a `composer.json` file in the root directory to load all the required files for this project. The content of the `composer.json` will be like this-

__composer.json__

```json
{
	"autoload": {
		"psr-4": {
			"app\\": "app"
		}
	}
}

```

You have to make sure that, you have installed __composer__ in your computer. If it is not there, then just install from [here](https://getcomposer.org/).

Now, open your terminal and heading to your project folder, then run the following command.

```
composer dumpautoload
```

Once you have run the command, you have noticed that there is a new folder in the root directory of your project called __vendor__.

Now, in your `index.php` file, you just need to `include()` the `autoload.php` file.

__index.php__

```php

<?php

require 'vendor/autoload.php';

...

```

Finally, you have to use namespace in your files. For example, in the __Models\Users.php__ file, you have to add namespace on top of your file. So, in the index file, you can easily use of it. An example of this will be like so-

__Models\Users.php__
```php

<?php
namespace app\Models;

class User
{
	public function all()
	{
		return [
			[
				'name' => 'user1',
				'email' => 'user1@gmail.com',
			],
			[
				'name' => 'user2',
				'email' => 'user2@gmail.com',
			]
		];
	}
}

```

Now, you are ready to use your files. In the `index.php` file, you can call `user.php` file via autoloading. Let's see-

__index.php__
```php

<?php

require 'vendor/autoload.php';

use app\Models\User;

$users = new User;
var_dump($users);

```

It should return the instance of  `Models\User` class.

Like so, you need to use `namespace` in every file, so that y0u can call files easily in any place in your application through autoloading.

You can find more in-depth code in this [repo](https://github.com/laravelschool/php-autoloading-and-namespace)

Hope this intro will be helpful for you.

Thank you.
