---

title: How to set up the Virtual Host on MacOS
slug: how-to-set-up-the-virtual-host-on-macos-59
date: 2020-02-24
category: Laravel
tags:
  - mac
  - virtual-host
image: "/src/content/images/default_image.jpeg"
excerpt: If you want to set up the Virtual Host on Mac OS, then this post might be helpful for you. I have a local project on PHP where I want to set the virtual host for that.
---

Hello

If you want to set up the Virtual Host on Mac OS, then this post might be helpful for you. I have a local project on PHP where I want to set the virtual host for that.

For example, I want to set `http://tisuchi.bd` as my domain instead of `localhost/site-project`.

## Table of Contents

## 1. Activate VirtualHost on Apache

First, uncomment the following line (remove the #) in `/private/etc/apache2/httpd.conf`

Run `sudo nano /private/etc/apache2/httpd.conf` first, and then remove `#` from the beginning of the line.
```
#Include /private/etc/apache2/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf
````

## 2. Map your domain first
To map your domain `http://tisuchi.bd` you need to open __/etc/hosts__ file. To do so, run the following command on the terminal.

```
sudo nano /etc/hosts
```

Then add the following line on the file-
```
127.0.0.1       tisuchi.bd
```

## 3. Add the virtual host in apache
Add the following VHost entry to the `/private/etc/apache2/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf` file-

```
<VirtualHost *:80>
    DocumentRoot "/Users/username/site-project"
    ServerName tisuchi.bd
</VirtualHost>
```

## 4. Restart Apache
To restart apache, you need to run the following command.

```
sudo apachectl restart
```

### Note: Some other apache commands.
You may need some other apache commands.
```
sudo apachectl start
sudo apachectl stop
```

## 5. Run PHP Server
Run the php server locally by running the following command-

```
php -S 127.0.0.1:80
```

Now, if you visit `http://tisuchi.bd` on your machine, you should able to see your site.


## Forbidden 403, You don’t have permission to access /~username/ on this server

If you have issue of __Forbidden 403, You don’t have permission to access /~username/ on this server__ , then

- Go to `cd /etc/apache2/users/`
- Run `ls` to check whether you have `{Username}.conf` file or not.
- If there is no file `{Username}.conf`, then you need to add a file by using this command `sudo nano Username.conf`.
- Then add the following code
```
<Directory "/Users/username/site-project/">
Options Indexes MultiViews FollowSymLinks
AllowOverride All
Order allow,deny
Allow from all
</Directory>
```
- Once you have saved successfully, if you run this command `la`, you should able to see something like this-
```
-rw-r--r--   1 root  wheel  298 Feb 24 16:47 username.conf
```

Finally, run ` sudo apachectl restart` to restart apache.

Hope it will work for you.

Thank you.
