---

title: A practical introduction of Laravel Valet
slug: a-practical-introduction-of-laravel-valet-60
date: 2020-02-26
category: Laravel
tags:
  - laravel
  - laravel-valet
image: "/src/content/images/default_image.jpeg"
excerpt: Today, I will try to make your life easier who uses laravel and want to implement a virtual host. In this tutorial, I would love to show you a practical introduction to Laravel Valet. Let's deep driving into it.
---

Hello.

In my previous post, I wrote about how to use [Virtual Host in MacOS](http://laravel-school.com/posts/how-to-set-up-the-virtual-host-on-macos-59). Today, I will try to make your life easier who uses laravel and want to implement a virtual host. In this tutorial, I would love to show you a practical introduction to Laravel Valet. Let's deep driving into it.

## Table of Contents

## Scenario
Imagine that, you have a Laravel project on MacOS, now you want to use a virtual host for the local development for accessing `anything.test`, instead of http://127.0.0.1. In that case, laravel brings valet for you our of the box.

I assume you have a fresh machine. You can skip any step if you feel that you have already.

Let's start-

### 1. Install Homebrew
You can follow [official](https://brew.sh/) docs or use as follow-

```bash
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

### 2. Install PHP version.
```bash
brew install php
```

### 3. Install Database
You can install database as you wish.

#### For MySql
```bash
brew install mysql@5.7
```
Check more in the [official docs](https://laravel.com/docs/6.x/valet#installation).

#### For MariaDB
```bash
brew install mariadb
```
Now run the following command-
```bash
sudo mysql -u root

mysql> USE mysql;
mysql> SELECT User, Host, plugin FROM mysql.user;
```
You may see something like this-
```bash
+------------------+-----------------------+
| User             | plugin                |
+------------------+-----------------------+
| root             | auth_socket           |
| mysql.sys        | mysql_native_password |
| debian-sys-maint | mysql_native_password |
+------------------+-----------------------+
```
As you can see in the query, the root user is using the auth_socket plugin.

Run this command and reset the password:
```bash
ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'root';
```
Now your mySQL login password is: __root__.

### 4. Download composer
Download composer from this link: https://getcomposer.org/installer

Then, Rename it __composer.phar__

### 5. Run PHP Phar
Try with this command-
```bash
php composer.phar
```

Then move it to the composer directory by the following command-
```bash
mv composer.phar /usr/local/bin/composer
```

### 6. Install Valet Globally

Run this command to install valet globally-

```bash
composer global require laravel/valet
```
Then-

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:~/.composer/vendor/bin
```

### 7. Install Valet
Now run this command to install valet-

```bash
valet install
```

### 8. Park your directory into Valet

To park your whole coding directory or any specific directory, you just go to the directory and run the following command. For example, in my case, I put all of my coding projects into `/Users/username/desktop/code`, so I will go to the `code` folder then run the following command-
```bash
valet park
```

### 9. Access your site.
Once you parked successfully, all of your project inside the folder will be accessible via `.test` domain. For example, I have the following projects inside the `code` directory-

```bash
code
    - project1
    - project2
    - project2
```

Now, I just go to the browser and run http://project1.test where I should able to see the content of the `project1` folder.

It's cool, right?

I really love this feature. I like it.

## Use HTTPS in your project
You can even use `https` in your local project. To make it secure, you just need to run `valet secure your-project-folder`. For example, in my case, I will go to `code` and want to make secure `project1`, so I will run the following command.

```bash
valet secure project1
```

Even if you want, you can unsecure also. To unsecure your project, you can try as following-

```bash
valet unsecure project1
```

## Change domain tld
By default, Valet serves your projects using the `.test` TLD. If you'd like to use another domain, you can do so using the `valet tld tld-name` command.

For example, if you'd like to use `.app` instead of `.test`, run `valet tld app` and Valet will start serving your projects at `*.app` automatically.


## Change default domain.
By default laravel valet use `folder name` as the __default domain name__. To change the default domain, just go to the parked folder and run `valet link your-desire-domain`. For example, in my case, instead of `project1` I want to use `learning.test`. So I will cd to `/code` folder and run the following command-
```bash
valet link learning
```

Now, I can go to http://learning.test which will be opening the `project1`.


## Some useful commands
`valet forget`	Run this command from a "parked" directory to remove it from the parked directory list.

`valet log`	View a list of logs which are written by Valet's services.

`valet paths`	View all of your "parked" paths.

`valet restart`	Restart the Valet daemon.

`valet start`	Start the Valet daemon.

`valet stop`	Stop the Valet daemon.

`valet trust`	Add sudoers files for Brew and Valet to allow Valet commands to be run without prompting for passwords.

`valet uninstall`	Uninstall Valet: Shows instructions for manual uninstall; or pass the `--force` parameter to aggressively delete all of Valet.

`valet links`	See the list of the linked project

`valet unlink SITENAME`	If you want to unlink any site from the valet, you can try this.

Hope this post helps you.

Thanks for reading.
